---
title: The Real Rural Life in China
date: 2023-02-13
categories:
  - Rural China
  - Lunar New Year
---


Prior to the Lunar New Year[^1A3], I viewed a video on Bilibili, the Chinese
counterpart to the popular video-sharing platform, YouTube. And this article was
then drafted as the video imparted a great deal of insight into the authentic
rural existence in China, an aspect that is rarely portrayed in mainstream
media.

[^1A3]: What's the precise translations for the Spring Festival, Chinese New
    Year, or Lunar New Year? In my eyes, the recent [ridiculous
    debate](https://chinadigitaltimes.net/chinese/692263.html) regarding the
    matter was devoid of logic and meaning.

Before diving into the specific contents of the video, I would like to excerpt a
quotation from the book *[Zoning China: Online Video, Popular Culture, and the
State](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/zoning-china)* by Li Luzhou:

> If we look back to the 1980s and 1990s, the two decades immediately following
> China's "reform and opening up," there was always an unofficial, alternative
> mechanism of cultural provision falling outside the purview of the state,
> which China scholar Orville Schell calls the "second channel," namely, piracy
> in all its permutations. Although some of its works were compatible with state
> ideology, the second channel also included many that departed from or even
> conflicted with the party line. The cultural formations that existed as an
> alternative to state media culture at different stages of the reform,
> collectively show that a dual cultural sphere has historically operated,
> generally with state permission, in China.

Despite the stringent censorship imposed by the Chinese government on the
internet, some valuable and introspective information can still be uncovered.
With the rise popularity of video streaming platforms in recent years, the
second channel of information dissemination has gradually shifted from
traditional media, such as books, newspapers, and television shows, to the
internet. Specifically, the video platform has now become the primary channel of
online life for the ordinary Chinese individual, providing a valuable
perspective for researchers seeking to comprehend contemporary Chinese society.

{{< bilibili BV1qx4y1u7q8 >}}

<br>

Returning to the video, it broadly depicted the quotidian existence of a typical
family residing in rural Sichuan province during the lead-up to the traditional
Lunar New Year, the most significant celebration for the Chinese people.

I have subscribed to the video channel for some time, and their videos
consistently bring me joy, particularly due to the vivacious laughter of the
hostess. Nonetheless, this particular video was not as delightful as their
others, rather than inducing feelings of sorrow. The circumstances depicted
within the video prompted me to reminisce on my own experiences growing up in
rural areas. Although the video uploader intended only to document the life of
their family during the Lunar New Year, it is likely unexpected that I, as a
viewer, was able to discern certain societal issues prevailing in contemporary
China.

First of all, the video highlights the plight of migrant workers. It is not
uncommon for migrant workers to experience wage defaults, as evidenced by the
video uploader's father, and this is not a solitary case. I have been privy to
similar stories since childhood, from my father and some relatives.

The absence of social security exacerbates the uncertainty and vulnerability
faced by migrant workers, contributing to the difficulties inherent in rural
life. In the prime of their lives, they can sustain themselves by working in
urban areas. However, when they age and become unable to work, they must return
to their rural hometowns where they have no social security. The only property
that rural peasants possess is their land, which they have the right to use but
not to own. The land cannot be sold or used as collateral for loans, rendering
it an illiquid asset and unable to generate wealth.

In many cases, the elderly in rural areas rely on their children for sustenance,
but this is not a secure arrangement. The current generation of young people in
China is already under immense pressure, so it is unlikely they will be able to
provide the necessary support to their aging parents. Despite this, having
children is still considered important in rural communities and young people are
often encouraged to have children, whether by their parents or the government.
However, the question remains: is having children truly valuable if one is
unable to provide for oneself? Can their children support them in their old age?
The answer in many rural areas is frequently a resounding no.

Today's young people in China are eager to secure employment in government or
related departments, driven by a desire to attain the prestige and stability
associated with being a civil servant. The social security benefits of this
occupation, including a stable income and an elevated status within Chinese
society, as well as numerous privileges, have made it highly sought after.
Western scholars have referred to the peculiar phenomenon of the Chinese middle
class as "[The Puzzle of the Chinese Middle
Class](https://www.journalofdemocracy.org/articles/the-puzzle-of-the-chinese-middle-class/)",
as a significant portion of the middle class are dependent on the government
directly or indirectly.

The Chinese economy has suffered greatly as a result of the stringent zero-covid
policy that has been in place for the past three years. The real estate
industry, in particular, has been in a state of crisis, with many developers
facing the threat of bankruptcy and a multitude of pre-sale houses remaining
unfinished.

In the midst of this economic turmoil, employment opportunities have plummeted,
leading to widespread job loss, particularly among recent university graduates.
In fact, the unemployment rate among individuals aged 16 to 24 reached a
staggering 20 percent in the latter half of 2022, according to the [National
Bureau of
Statistics](http://www.stats.gov.cn/tjsj/zxfb/202208/t20220815_1887338.html).

The Chinese government has acknowledged the dire employment situation, but it
remains oblivious to the fact that its own zero-covid policy is the root cause
of the problem. Rather than addressing the underlying issues, the government has
merely encouraged people to be "more flexible" in their job search, a move that
is widely seen as inadequate and insufficient.

Despite calling on its members to "never forget the original heart" of the
Chinese Communist Party, it seems that the party, under the leadership of Xi
Jinping, has lost sight of its true purpose and is solely focused on maintaining
its grip on power. It is clear the the video I have viewed on Bilibili
demonstrated the widespread issues which the Chinese society is facing due to
its current public policies. Although the Chinese government has sought to
provide its citizens with a more prosperous life, the policy of "zero-covid" has
had disastrous consequences, leading to widespread job losses, rising
unemployment rates, and an ailing economy.

The video also highlighted the plight of rural people who have been unable to
benefit from the government's policies, leading to a widening wealth gap,
limited social security and an increasing lack of prospects for the elderly. In
light of this, it is evident that the Chinese government needs to adopt a new
approach which is better tailored to the needs of the Chinese people and better
understands the realities of their lives, even if it proves to be a daunting
task. It is my sincere hope that the Chinese people can enjoy true stability and
prosperity by recognizing the need for and embracing progressive reform.
